So, m'lord, you're a new student at the institute, huh?
M'lord?
Hmm? Oh, yeah I suppose I will be.
Pretty unusual, having a pick-up like this. Not that it's my first time carrying a student up there or anything.
Really?
It was hard focusing on what the driver was saying when so much is happening all around the carriage.
There was so much life, so much motion. It was like... well, magic.
It's just, you know, odd for one of you to be arriving on your own like this. Usually students will have their own retinue. And... more bags, you know?
Mmhmm, yeah.
A child running right by us is carrying a stick rapidly changing in color with a stream of sparks flying off the end.
So... you must be one them uh, 'special cases', huh?
Might be.
Special what?
Too right, well, none of my business, that.
Whatever the driver was thinking, they got quiet after that, which let me focus on everything around us.
There were so many wonders on the street. A shop has a sign that spins on its own and reads a different slogan with each revolution.
And there! A woman has her baby in a carriage that seems to be pushing itself.
It always gets lively right before the start of a new term. Plenty to see in town.
The driver seemed to notice me gaping out the windows with a grin.
I continue staring, nearly hanging out the window at one point to watch a fountain erupting with what appear to be flower petals that went off jus as we rode past.
Well, I'm sure you'll be learning a lot up there. And we're not too far now.
As we round the bend on the street I finally get a proper view at our destination: The Magical Institute of Qyburn
Home to the most advanced magical research in the world.
No one could see that castle bearing down on them and hang onto any shread of misplaced confidence. Visitors were at the mercy of the powers that reside here.
We finally make it to the entrance where the driver drops me off along with the lone bag that comprises all my wordly posessions.
I can hardly take a step inside the grand doors before I'm ambushed by an administrator.
Welcome to the institute! We hope your journey was a pleasant one?
Oh, it —
May I see your invitation?
They deftly swipe the invitation from my hands just as I'm producing it from my pocket.
Oh, very interesting. Yes, we've certainly been expecting you.
Well I'd love to give you a tour of the grounds you'll be calling home, but it's dreadfully late already and you must be exhausted.
Let me lead you to where you'll be staying.
They grabbed my arm with too much strength for someone with their frame and dragged me out the door I just came in.
Most of the students have already arrived and are resting in their rooms. Do try not to make any undue ruckus in the dormitories.
As you should already be aware, tomorrow is the opening ceremony for the new term. That will be the first day of your new life here.
For now here are the keys to your room. There is a strict curfew once classes begin but it would be wise for you to begin practicing it now.
The dragging didn't stop until we got to the doorstep of my room.
Oh, how exciting! We expect great things from you, so be sure to get some rest.
Practically dumping me there, they finally let me go, and briskly walk away without ever letting me get a word in.
Which is well enough. They were right that I was exhausted.
Entering my new room, I drop my bag to the floor, not bothering to unpack, and let myself drop into the bed.
Between the excitement of everything I saw in town on the ride in and my nerves confronting the reality of actually being a student here, I'm worried that I won't be able to get any rest at all.
On the other hand, the journey here had been long and it all seemed to be catching up with me now as I let out a yawn.
What had they said? They "expect great things?"
I stifle another yawn as my eyelids grow heavy and I let sleep take me.
 I wake up the next morning just before sunrise, the still sore from travel. 
I didn't have a chance to appreciate it last night but the bed in my room may be the nicest I've ever been in. I slept like a rock.
I stretch and look outside. The sky is still dark but growing red with the coming sun. I can't see any activity from my window and I take a moment to just appreciate the quiet.
Today will be the opening ceremony but not for at least an hour more, so I decide to tidy up a bit.
After unpacking my two sets of clothes into a wardrobe large enough to make my collection feel inadequate, I turn to set up my personal effects on my desk:
A worn dagger that used to belong to my father, and a sharpening stone to maintain it.
A clear crystal with a streak running through it strung on a cord - a protective charm from a merchant who had visited our home town years ago.
I don't wear it much anymore but it felt appropriate to bring whatever protection I could muster when leaving home to come here.
Lastly I pull out a tattered leatherbound notebook. Somewhere between a diary and a sketchbook I use it regularly and it's showing its age. I'll need to pick up some more parchment for it in town.
I pull out the last of my traveling rations from my sack and munch on it as I look back outside.
The sun has stubbornly refused to budge in the sixty seconds it took me to unpack so I decide to explore the dormitory.
I hear signs of life from other rooms as others are starting to wake. I don't feel like I have the courage needed to endure a run-in with my neighbors yet, so I move with haste to a quieter section of the building.
A door standing ajar catches my attention and I peek through to find not another bedroom but what appears to be a series of raised washbasins mounted to the wall.
I approach with curiosity and just as I'm leaning in to get a closer look at the aparatus it springs to life with water running down into the basin, and down a hole in the base.
I can't help but release a yelp in surprise and rush out the room the way I came in.
 I'm crouching in the hall, peaking back into the room, fearing that I've triggered some magical alarm system, when I notice I'm no longer alone. 
Are you ok there? {i}*snicker*{/i}
She seems to be trying, not very successfully, to stifle laughter after catching me... well I'm not sure what I've done wrong yet but I'd prefer to not get in trouble for it.
Ok? Me? I'm great. Why wouldn't I be ok?
Oh, pardon me, you just seemed a bit alarmed, is all.
Oh, I'm fine, yep. I was just, uh, making sure no one snuck in there.
Snuck in? I imagine anyone who's made it on campus is welcome to use the facilities.
Her smile fades and she looks a little puzzled before asking,
Have you never used a washroom before?
A washroom? So this room is for washing things, probably powered by some magic?
Swallowing my pride as it doesn't seem like maintaining a bluff will get me anywhere,
Honestly, no, I've never heard of one before now.
A look of shock quickly passes over her face before being replaced by a twinkle of excitement in her eyes.
That's surprsing; they're such marvelous conveniences!
She grabs my arm and pulls me back into the room and shows me how getting near the basin causes the device above it to start emitting a fountain of water.
The basis is a fairly standard water artifice hidden behind the wall with some clever engineering to funnel the watter the right way without causing a mess. The real genius, however, is how newer installations react to your mana to immediately begin dispensing when you approach.
I thought you might have never used an automatic one before, which was alarming the first time I tried one as a child... but to think you've never used a washroom before.
I know the technology's only a few decades old, but I've grown up with them my whole life so it's such hardship when I have do without while traveling.
What house are you from that doesn't have washrooms in their estate?
What house? My confusion seems to show as she interjects:
Oh where are my manners? I'm [ag.name()], of house [ag.family_name].
It finally clicks. She's nobility. I have no idea what the etiquette is around introductions but she doesn't look like she'll take any transgression personally.
I'm [mc.name()] of Karnsley. I'm afraid I don't belong to any of the noble houses.
Oh, wow. I'm sorry for jumping to conclusions. Are you employed by the academy?
I'm actually a student, or will be once the term start.
Really? I didn't realize the school admitted commoners. Well I've made a fool of myself.
True, the only way you could look more foolish is if I had caught you panicking over being caught tresspassing by an automatic washbasin,
I reply with a grin and we both laugh off the awkward circumstances of our meeting.
I was apprehensive about how to interact with other students here, but I'm totally disarmed by how friendly [ag.name()] has been.
Ok, in that case, I {i}have{/i} to show you the toilets. This is going to change your life.
She drags me back into the washroom to show me several other wonders and we spend a while together, her excitedly describing the workings of the artifice mechanisms involved, and me mostly just trying to keep up.
Apparently the school also has indoor bath houses, though they're in detached buildings due to the complexity of drawing and draining that much water.
By the time we're through, the sun has fully risen and there's plenty of motion around the door as students prepare for the day.
Shoot, I need to get ready if I'm going to be in time for the opening ceremony. It was a pleasure meeting you, [mc.name()].
So we part ways and I join the throng of students heading their way to the auditorium.
I've taken my seat in the auditorium amongst what seem to be over a hundred other students.
A few stragglers are still trickling in but it seems like the ceremony is getting ready to begin.
An elderly man makes his way onto the central podium on the stage. He's clearly quite frail but somehow manages to exude power at the same time.
All the chatter dies down.
{size=72}{cps=20}POTENTIA UTENDEM EST!{/cps}{/size}
The old man roars, far louder than should be possible, and no hint of frailty remains in his frame.
These are the words of our institution. These are the words we will instill in you. And if you expect to survive here, these are the words you must live by.
First, you must know who we are.
We are not spiritual theoreticians like you will find in the institutions of the east.
We are not diviners and supplicants to the spirits as you will find in the temples to the south.
Who are we? We are the Magi. The practitioners of magic. We do not fear our own power for we understand how to use it. How to bend and reshape the world into a better one.
Starting from this day, you too will be magi.
Oh, aspirants of the spiritual arts, stray souls seeking to drink from the font of knowledge, be welcome here. But know that this knowledge you seek comes at a price.
You will work and you will grow, for we will work you and we will grow you. We will mold you into the magi of tomorrow and you will be greater than anything that has come before.
But as you grow in power so too will you grow in your duty to put that power to use. There is no greater sin than the inaction of the powerful.
And once your time is done here you will take what we teach you back to your homes, to your lands, to the far corners of the world and you will put it to use.
And then there is a long pause. The old man appears to almost shrink he no longer imposes the same aura as before, but everone is still a bit shaken by that performance.
And with that let's call the ceremony bit of this pageant done eh? Hoh oh oh oh oh.
In case you haven't gathered it yet, I am the Headmaster at the Qyburn Institute of Magic.
Now for a few logistical matters. You are all the 238th class at this hallowed institution. Or rather you will be.
While you're all gathered here to study at the academy, ultimately, not all of you will be joining as students.
How do I mean? Well as of today you are all prospects. For one week our esteemed faculty will be conducting lessons in the fundamentals we expect all our students to master.
Some of you may have arrived with prior study such that you already feel you have no need for such lessons. I caution that you act on your hubris at your own peril.
At the end of the this week we will be holding a qualifying exam, and as is fitting our words, there will be a practical component that will demand you to apply what you learn.
If you pass this qualifying exam, or "Quals" as your peers have taken to calling it, you will be inducted as full students of the academy.
If we find you lack the aptitude necessary to succeed here, we will ask you to leave.
My heart sinks into my stomach. There's a exam in one week? I don't know the first thing about magic and it seems like more than half the students here have had some private instruction before coming here.
Oh, and one last thing.
I want to take this moment to call attention to a program we run at this institute. In keeping with our words, every year we partner with the esteemed guilds in the city to admit a handful of guild-sponsored students.
These students will be expected to immeidately put into practice what they learn here at the academy by reporting to their guild patrons for duties. They will of course have to balance this against their other coursework.
Each year we tend to have either one or two such students, but this year we have an unprecedented five. I for one look forward to such promising talent joining us for the schoolyear.
And that's it! Enjoy the rest of your day off as classes begin tomorrow.
I join the crowd emptying out of the building, trying to process what I've signed up for.
I'm one of those students sponsored by a guild that the headmaster mentioned at the end of his address. That part doesn't surprise me, I knew roughly what the deal was.
I've always been interested in magic and the spirits, I feel like I can see them from time to time, like after a rainfall or being carried by a particularly powerful squall.
But I've never had any particular talent for it. I've never managed to cast any spells, I wouldn't know where to begin.
The only reason I'm here is that a friend of my mother had apparently made arrangements for me to attend this school through the Adventurer's guild.
I knew it was prestigious but I figured I had already been admitted so the hard part was over.
I make it as far as the stairs in front of the building, lost my my self-pity, before a staff member stops me to hand me a note. Apparently I'm to report to the Adventurer's guild today for orientation.
It doesn't take me too long to find the guild. Most of the guild halls in town seem to be situated on the same street and this one is pretty prominent.
Welcome to the Adventurer's guild! Have you come to petition the guild with a request?
Hi. No I don't think so, I'm a student up at the academy and was told to report here.
A student? I'm afraid I don't know —
Oh, that's right! Let me go fetch the guildmaster.
The receptionist leaves and I take a look around. It's early afternoon and the hall is mostly empty. I guess people don't linger for too long after they've finished their business here.
The Adventurer's guild is a pretty well regarded institution, we even had a small branch back home.
I've thought more than a few times about joining up with them as it always felt like a easy solution to the otherwise directionless life I've lead. But my mom wouldn't hear it.
Come to think of it I'm surprised she was convinced to let me come to this school on a guild sponsorship.
Ah here you are. Damien's kid, right? I knew your father back in the day.
I'm shocked to hear this. My dad died when I was pretty young and I honeslty don't know much about him.
I remember him telling me stories of his adventures before bed that would fill my sleep with dreams of gallantry and heroism.
But after he died, no one would ever tell me how it happened. My mother wouldn't tolerate talk of him. All I know is that he had been on a particularly dangerous contract for the guild and didn't make it.
You probably already have a decent idea of how the guild works but your situation is a bit special so let's just start from the beginning and clear up any misconceptions you might be carrying.
First of all you are a student - not an adventurer. The guild isn't in the business of hiring minors and during your time acting on behalf of the guild you must understand that you do not have the rank and privileges of a full member of the guild.
That being said, your position is not without its perks.
You are from this day forward, provisional members of the Adventurer's Guild, and will be granted a provisional license.
This process isn't all too dissimilar to what any prospective adventurer might go through if they walked into our halls and applied for membership. The difference is that your path from here to full membership is much more clearly prescribed:
During your time in our care you'll perform contracts on behalf of the guild. Once you graduate, should you still be in good standing with us, you'll not only be inducted as a full fledged member of the Adventurer's guild, but you'll begin your career as a {b}class C{/b} adventurer.
This is a significant merit - most adventurers don't make it to class C without at least 10 years of experience under their belt, and very few ever find themselves promoted past this classification.
As a sponsored graduate from Qyburn you will find yourself quickly advancing through the guild ranks.
She pauses to take a breath and steps over to grab a drink from a small bar tucked around the corner from the reception that I hadn't noticed until now.
Damn, you're making me talk today. Don't worry, we're almost through.
So where was I? Right, so all of that is contingent on your fullfillment of duties to the guild and remaining in good academic standing back at the adademy.
A kid like you from a Podunk-backwater like Karnsley couldn't fathom the sums of money the guild is fronting to sponsor your tution up there.
Part of that is paid for from the revenue you'll earn doing contracts, but you can't hope to earn enough to pay back that debt in full - and we don't expect you to.
Instead the guild is making an investment in you as a promising young candidate for a future master adventurer. If we find you're not living up to that promise, we'll have no choice but to divest our investment in you.
She pauses to take another long drink and I can't make out what's in that dark red-brown liquid she has in her mug.
Great. So having said all that, put it out of mind for now.
There will be plenty of time for that once you're a full student at the academy, but you're no use to us if you don't pass your Quals.
So report back here in a weeks time after you've {i}passed{/i} your exams, and we'll get you set up with a physical license and let you start taking on contracts.
Alright that's my whole spiel. Do you have any questions before we kick you out?
I did.
Damien was equal parts a good man and a scoundrel, but he had a big heart and he loved you with all of it.
He would go to unreasonable lengths to help those in front of him.
He had all these grand plans of making it big as an adventurer. Bringing back wealth and glory. He figured this was how he'd do right by you all.
But he didn't understand where his wife and kids needed him most was back home with them. And then he went and got himself killed.
But there's no point in reminiscing on the past. Maybe if you can establish yourself more around here, I'll have more stories to tell about him.
Hah! Well you've got the right attitude, believe it or not. We're not a charity, and the guild collects payment for the contracts we fulfill.
Based on your rank we have standard rate splits. For example a full Class E adventurer would generally expect to get a 60% split of the payout, which isn't bad considering it's costing us more to organize these contracts, facilitate the payments, and offer support to adventurers than we're making on that 40% cut.
But we need you all to make enough to feed yourselves and stay off the streets while you hopefully get good enough to take on more difficult contracts.
Those contracts in turn are more lucrative so the guild needs to take less of a cut to cover our overheads. So at the higher ranks, the job pays pretty well.
Of course, we won't be anywhere near as generous with you. We're already paying for your cushy room as well as all the food you eat up there at the academy, not to mention the outrageous sums they charge for tuition.
So we'll be taking most of what you bring in from contracts so you can start paying back what we've invested in you.
Still we'll leave you with some pocket change so you can afford to buy some candy after class.
After leaving the guild hall I note that it's well past midday now. This far north, it won't be long now until sunset.
I feel my stomach grumbling as I realize I haven't had anything to eat since early morning.
Excuse me, can you point me to the nearest shrine to the spirits?
Sorry, I'm not sure...
A shrine? I don't think I've ever seen one around here.
Sorry there aren't too many superstitious folks around here kid.
It takes several more tries before I find someone who can point me in the right direction
A shrine... yeah I swear I've seen one around somewhere. I think down that district there, a little ways past the residential blocks. There should be one over there.
And by the time I track it down it's been nearly two hours since I started and the sun is hanging low in the sky.
I make my way to the market and follow my nose to the prepared food stalls.
There I'm met with a cavalcade of sights and sounds and smells of so many dishes being prepared.
I spend a while deliberating before settling on some dumplings and a fresh peach for dessert.
I find a quiet bench overlooking the river to enjoy my meal.
I feel like a lot's happened already and I should take this opportunity to take stock.
Classes begin tomorrow but more importantly there's an exam at the end of the week that I need to make sure I'm prepared for.
I have duties to the Adventurer's Guild, but that can wait until next week.
And the guildmaster said they knew my father. This could be my chance to find out what happened to him and what kind of man he was.
Somewhere between the full stomach and laying out my concerns I feel a lot more in control.
I also recall that there was one more thing I had been meaning to do in town today. I return to the market and pick up a few more peaches before starting on my last mission for the day.
Back home it's pretty normal for people to show reverence to the spirits, and the shrine is a pretty prominent feature of the town.
I was never especially devout, but I was taught that whenever traveling you should pay respects to the local spirits and ask for their protection while visiting their domain.
It seems the people here have a different perspective towards the spirits, which feels odd because this city and everything that's made it so successful is built entirely on the power of the spirits.
Now that I approach the shrine, my offering of fresh peaches in tow, I take notice of how run-down the temple around it is.
The main offering altar is well maintained but there are side buildings that look abandoned and unkempt.
It's so quiet that I feel like I'm intruding, but I gather up my courage and move to make my offering.
Well now isn't this a surprise. What are you doing here young one?
Good evening ma'am. I'm new to town and I'm here to pay my respects to the local spirits.
Have you now? And what have your brought the spirits this evening?
Just some peaches from the market.
I put my 3 peaches on the altar step back down from the steps.
Peaches, you say?
The old woman saunters over to the offering altar picks up a peach and inspects it.
Mmm, you've got a good eye for produce.
And with a loud crunch, she takes a bite of my offering.
How did you know peaches were my favorite?
I'm at a loss for words. This woman can't be an official here, she must be some vagrant who swipes offerings people leave here!
Hehehehe oh you must see the look on your face. Oh don't get your knickers in a knot, I'm just having some fun with you. 
By stealing offerings from the shrine! Does noone in this city respect the spirits anymore?!
I don't know why this has me so heated. Somehow this moment was important to me. Some connection to home through similar ritual.
You should be old enough to know by now the spirits aren't sneaking in at night to whisk your offering away. At a more distinguished temple in the south the attendants might leave this offering out for a few days until the spoiling fruit threatens to injure the dignity of the shrine.
At which point they'll throw it on a rubbish heap. Or perhaps at some of the more progressive sites they might collect the eddible offerings to donate to an orphanage.
But don't you think to question my devotion to the spirits just beacuse I won't tolerate letting a prime peach go to waste!
Why else would I carry on with such a thankless job as maintaining this temple?
I'm a embarrased by being called out this way, but I still can't help glancing at the poor state of the rest of the temple.
The old woman seems to catch my gaze and grows a bit more solemn.
Not that this place hasn't seen better days. But what am I to do? You can't fix up a temple with peaches alone, not that the locals bother offering even that much.
Look, I know you're not a bad kid. I didn't need to leap don't your throat like that. In my advanced age I've learned to be less concerned about dignity; much better to say what's on your mind and have fun with what time I've got left.
So you've come all the way out here, let me offer you a blessing:
As I've borne witness, the sprits accept and appreciate your offering, child. May they show you their favor, offer you their protection, and guide you with their wisdom during your stay here.
Thank you, shrine keeper.
I offer her a bow, but as I straighten again I feel a dizziness come over me, along with a thrumming in my ears.
I have to support myself on a pillar to stop from falling as the thrumming grows, louder and more insistent.
I can hear someone calling out to me, at the edges of my perception... the shrine keeper?
Then as quickly as it came, the sensation fades again. I'm sweating and shivering slightly but am already feeling much better, though I see the shrine keeper looking very concerned.
Finding my balance again, I straighten up.
I'm sorry, I don't know what just came over me. I should be fine now that it's passed.
Then all at once it hits me again, like a tsunami, and I lose consciousness.
Good morning sleepy head.
You were brought in last night by a sweet old thing who was quite shook up with you collapsing on her.
I looked you over and couldn't find a thing wrong with you, so I just let you sleep it off here.
Classes haven't even started yet and you kids are already working yourselves to death.
Speaking of, you're a first year, right? So you'll be needing to get ready if you want to catch your first class.
I thank the nurse, embarrassed and rush back to my room to get ready.
I collapse into my bed at the end of the day, my mind still whirling with everything I've been learning.
Between classes where I'm already way behind the other students and having to report to the guild, I'm worried I won't last long here.
But for now it's late and I'm plenty tired so I should try to quell my doubts and get to bed. I can already feel a headache coming on.
I close my eyes and begin to drift.
...
I feel... heat. And pain. My head throbs insistently. And there's a persistent thrumming in my ears.
The thoughts are hard to pin down.
The sensations fade as I finally settle into sleep.
I make it back to my room at the end of the day, exhausted.
I'm surprised by how physically taxing channeling has proven, and my head still hasn't forgiven me for pushing myself so hard in class today.
The moon is bright enough to light up my room and I'm tempted to stay up a little bit longer.
I had vague intentions of doing some attuning practice tonight, but I don't think my head can I can take much more today so I just pull the curtains shut.
I slide into bed, thankful the academy designed the accomodations to satisfy its primarily noble student body, and drop into sleep so quickly I hardly notice the thrumming that's begun in my ears.
...
My ears ring loudly now, and my head's throbbing so hard I wince at the pain.
No. Not at the pain, at the light.
The flickering is so bright. I thought I had closed my curtains?
And the heat is so intense. I can't sleep like this.
Or am I already sleeping? I must be dreaming...
The sensations are already fading as my thoughts work to catch up, and the darkness of sleep reclaims me.
I finally did it today. I channeled for the first time in my life. At least, the first time on purpose.
I'm still riding that high as I return to my room.
A part of me was convinced I didn't actually have what it takes to channel. But now it feels like I might have a shot to make it through this.
I'm not even surprised when the thrumming starts in my ears as I settle in to rest for the night.
...
Tonight my dreams take a different turn than usual.
My head hurts and my ears are still buzzing, but I'm a kid again.
I got up early and snuck out before sunrise with my friends.
We're going to go check out the old abandoned temple. It's a test of courage.
Some of them believe there's an old which who lives here. One of them even believes they saw a ghost here once.
But I'm not afraid. I told them they were stupid for believing in such childish things.
Plus I've got a secret weapon in case any ghosts do try to sneak up on us.
We met up outside my house and are now moving quietly through the empty streets.
The moon is so bright that it's not hard to see, and we all know our way around the neighborhood. It doesn't take long before we make it to the old temple.
I lead the way with 3 other kids huddling close behind, but I've never really been this close to the temple before so I'm starting to lose my nerve a little.
The stonework on the ground is uneven and I stumble. I catch myself, but not before yelling a bit more loudly than I had intended.
A light comes on in a nearby room, and we see her: it's the witch!
I jolt awake to find that it's already morning.
Tonight the thrumming begins earlier than before.
I realize it's the same sensation I get when I push myself too hard to attune to the spirits. Except, different.
It's deeper, and somehow... more insistent.
It must be some sort of after-effect of working myself so hard in clases.
Perhaps everyone feels this when they first start studying magic, but all the other students began study with private instructors when they were much younger.
In any case it's been such a consistent companion to me these last few nights that it's almost comforting.
I'm able to ignore it well enough that it doens't take long to fall asleep.
...
Through the now-familar buzzing that joins me in my dreams each night, I notice another sound layered on top of it. A crackling.
The lights I've seen before are clearer. Reds and yellows and oranges.
And a new sensation strikes me. I can smell Smoke.
When the witch caught us I panicked and ran.
I was holding the little artifice my parents use in their tavern.
The building isn't so big, and there's not a lot of room for tables inside. So half of them are set up outside.
But nights here can get real cold. So we've got a few of these artficial flames set up in cages all around the tables so folks can enjoy some warmth while they're eating.
But when I was so surprised I lost it. I must have dropped it while we were running.
Now I'm back at the abandoned temple. The artifice must have triggered and the long dead and untreated wood of the structure eagerly took to the flame.
The flame grows and grows and consumes everything. I feel it coming to get me and I'm ready to accept it.
I'm so worked up I'm awake before the sun's fully risen.
Today's the day.
Today I take the exam that decides my future at this academy. Or more accurately, whether I have any future at all here.
I... don't know what I would do if I went home now. I don't really have any other prospects. My life was pretty aimless before. I know mom will be disappointed.
I don't know if I'm ready, given how behind I was at the start of the week I'm honestly pretty worried.
I've learned a lot and I'm sure I can demonstrate that. I just have to hope that that's enough.
But the anxiety of it all is still getting to me. No matter how much I pep myself up I can't shake this sinking feeling in my gut.
The exam won't start for a little while but longer I'm too antsy to stay in my room.
I step out into the courtyard and the smell hits me first.
Smoke.
Off in the distance towards town, I can see a faint plume of gray. I have a terrible feeling about this.
There's no way for a fire to make it all the way up to the campus, but something is bothering me.
The smoke, it's coming from the northeastern corner. I think back to my experiences exploring the town.
There's a residential area there and... the shrine?
My memories of my dreams come to me. The shrine caught fire? But that was just a dream.
I need to go check, but the exam will begin soon, there's no time.
That's right. I have been preparing for this exam all week. If I went into town now I'd surely miss it and risk my attendance here.
I start to head to the hall where the exam will be held but I hesitate.
I can't do it. I need to know.
I can't shake this feeling that I need to go, I need to be there.
But I can't risk missing the exam. And so what if the shrine burns? No one even uses it.
Except... the Shrinekeeper. In my dream she was still in there.
It doesn't make any sense, even if there was a fire, and even if it happened to be at that old temple, she would have made it out by now. Dreams aren't real.
I turn to head to the hall where the exam will be held.
"Save them."
I can't do it. If there's any chance they're in danger, I have to go.
I sprint into town, rehersing the route to the temple in my head.
I'm ready to feel like an idiot. There's probably no fire at all, some idiot just had a tragic grilling blunder and the shrine will be there just as before: an island kept afloat by a sole keeper in a sea of that rundown temple.
Even if there is a fire, what are the odds it's made its way to the temple?
Anything to keep my mind off of the fact that by running this far into town already, I have no hope of making it back in time for the start of the exam.
By the time I get to the temple, it's too late. The whole thing is ablaze, the western wing is already collapsed and smouldering.
I just have to hope the Shrinekeeper made it out OK. She must have, right?
Besides I'm powerless, here. There's nothing I could do even if I wanted to.
I feel it again. The thrumming.
I'm not powerless. I've been working my ass off all week.
Forget the exam. Here and now. This is my test.
Water, what else?
I recall the feeling of jumping in the fountain. Being soaked all the way through. Water dripping from my clothes, down my hair, covering my whole body, and I will the spirits, please.
And thank them, they respond.
In a rush I'm drenched, water falls to the ground around me and push on.
 Kinesis. I don't know where I'll find the Shrinekeeper but the temple is falling apart and I can't get close enough to the burning structures to move them myself so I'll need to rely on the spirits for help. 
I rush through the threshold of the temple gate, the flames haven't quite reached it yet but I can feel the heat from here.
The water rapidly evaporating off of me keeps me from feeling the brundt of the heat.
The heat and smoke is so intense, I begin to cough.
Where is she? I think back to my dream. The east wing, her room was there.
I don't have time to find the entrance to the building proper; for all I know it's already collapsed or engulfed by flames.
But I remember the window. I rush along the outside of the building to where I saw the light in my dreams.
There!
I recall the feeling of setting [wg.name()]'s window into place. The heft of the pane against the frame, the joints where it snapped into place.
I don't doubt the window's construction in this temple differs wildly from those back in our dorm room, but surely the spirits can cut me some slack on this?
And thank them, they respond.
I watch as the window flexes, and shatters, and a rush of hot air rushes out.
I approach the window. It's hot to the touch and I don't see a handle. I don't think I can't get it open from the outside.
But I don't have any time, I wrap my hand in my sleeve and ram my fist into the glass pane.
It shatters and several shard scratch my arm, but I can barely feel it.
The room is thankfully not itself burning, but it's filled with smoke.
I leap through, covering my mouth and face with my shirt, looking frantically around. I don't see the shrinekeeper anyway, but notice the door is open.
I rush out into the hall and see her. The old woman looks so frail lying in the hall, I can't tell if she's breathing.
I lift her in my arms and carry her back to the window.
I have to push out the remaining sharp edges of the shattered glass before I can push her out the window and follow after.
I rush to carry her away from the burning remains of the temple and towards fresh air.
...
I make it our of the temple entrance and onto the street which by now is filled with onlookers.
I put the Shrinekeeper onto the ground, my strength finally failing me, and inspect her.
The wasn't burned but... I don't think she's breathing either.
Help! Can anyone help her?
An older gentleman pushes through the crowd and comes up to us.
Give her here
He nudges me out of the way as he lays his hands on her chest and throat.
She'll have inhaled too much smoke in there. Her throat and lungs will have suffered serious injuries.
Do something!
I am.
I finally notice the telltale glow of channeling from him and shortly afterwords the Shrinekeeper jerks to her side and begins a fit of coughing.
I've done about as much as I can. Healing scalds and superficial burns is a far cry from healing internal ones, but I've done what I could. It's up to the spirits now.
Everything after that was a blur.
There was no saving the temple after that but people worked together to ensure that the fire was largely contained. There should be no risk to the rest of the district.
Some older residents from nearby took in the Shrinekeepr assuring me they'd take care of her while she recovered.
I guess even though the temple was largely neglected there were some people who still cared about her. I'm glad.
Some people wanted to ask me questions, others were praising my heroism. But I don't feel heroic, just dead tired.
I don't quite remember how I made it back to my room. The last vestiges of adrenaline keeping me going are long gone and I just feel empty.
I collapse in my bed and try to make sense of what's happened.
The dreams I've been having, they were real, weren't they? How?
And the exam... well, I missed it. I don't even feel bad about it; it all feels so small now.
I'm just glad I was able to act in time.
It's still midday but I'm just so tired that I'm ready to sleep again.
 Funny, the thrumming that's visited me each night has been my constant companion, but I can't hear it now. I almost miss it. 
...
I stir slightly, my senses returning to me.
I must have slept straight through to evening.
It's been precisely 3 hours, 23 minutes and 19 seconds.
I sit up in bed.
Is someone there?
I've been here for some time now but I didn't wake you as it appeared that you needed rest.
I look around to find someone... floating(?) in the middle of my room.
Would you like to know how long I've been here?
Who are you?
Ah, I suppose we've not been introduced yet from your perspective.
I'm... what humans might call a 'Time Spirit'.
A what? Wait you're a spirit??
So spirits are real? And she's a spirit of time? Is that even possible?
Yes. You should ask your questions so that I may answer them.
I don't even know where to begin. How is this possible? What are you doing here?
'This' is possible because you've attuned to me, and I to you, in a sense. To put it lightly, it's not usual, what we've done.
As for my purpose now, well, that's a more delicate subject. One that you're not ready to hear fully. But the most pertinant aspect of my purpose now is to offer you my assistance.
Of all the impossible things that have happened to me this week, this one really takes the cake.
Ok... thank you, I guess? I don't know what help you're offering, or what help you think I need, but I have about a million more questions if that's alright.
Questions that I'm sure you'll find the answers to soon, but not right now.
You've had a long day but it's not through yet. There's some important business left unfinished.
I'll meet you again at the same time, right outside your door. But until then, you've got an exam to take.
It begins in my ears like usual, the thrumming loud and angry. But it continues now, not just in my head, but my whole body vibrates urgently.
The feeling crashes into me so suddenly my vision swims and I worry I might vomit. I'm glad I'm sitting in my bed as I feel I might collapse again.
But then it subsides, as quickly as it comes, and my senses start to recover.
I need to take a few moments to catch my breath. I'm thankful I didn't manage to eat anything today as I don't think I'd be able to keep it down.
The spirit must have done something to me, but if that was their idea of helping they must have a warped sense of what humans find helpful. I'm definitely not feeling any better.
I look around the room, still sitting in my bed and it takes me a moment to realize that it's not evening anymore.
Outside the window the sun has just risen. Did I somehow pass out all night without realizing?
I suppose so. Then it's time to face the reality of the situation. Though I may have helped save the Shrinekeeper I missed the qualification exam and so my admission at the academy will be rescinded.
I start to gather my things to pack and then think better of it. I'll need time to make arrangements to travel home. I wonder if I can petition the school to let me use this room while I wait?
I make my way to the administration office and manage to find a familiar face who greets me with a smile.
Good morning, prospect. I do hope you're ready?
Ready? To leave? I suppose it's obvious they will have noted my absense and have just assumed I chickened out. So they've already begun the expulsion process.
I hope they'll still be receptive to my request.
Good morning, administrator. I'm afraid that's what I've come to talk to you about. I don't believe I'm quite ready yet.
The administrators smile quickly turns into a frown.
Not ready? Well that won't do. We cannot and will not make exceptions.
I understand, I was just hoping you could accomodate me a few more nights while I make arrangements.
A few more nights? Arrangements? I don't know what's gotten into you but we'll do no such thing.
I'm shocked, to be quite honest. Your fundamentals professor spoke highly of your efforts. He said you'd made respectable progress given your limited background.
I don't know if you've just gotten cold feet or we've just been a bit too successful in scaring you kids into taking this exam seriously, but you're going to march out into the exam hall and steel yourself to give it your all.
The administrator ushers me out the door of the building.
We've taken a keen interest in you, you know. You better shape up and act with a little more confidence.
As usual they don't give me a chance to get a word in, but it's just as well given I have no idea what to say.
Did I make a mistake? Was the exam not yesterday? No, I'm sure it was, but...
What had the time spirit told me? They said I had an exam to take. That didn't make sense to me before, I thought they were speaking metaphorically.
But no, this is what they meant by helping me. They somehow sent me back in time.
I make my way to the exam hall. Though I'm still a little early, students are already trickling in.
After everything I've been through, it seems silly to be nervous about this now.
The time spiri gave me another chance. All that's left is to focus and not let it go to waste.
Welcome prospects, after today I hope to welcome many of you as full students of the Academy. But first we'll see if you have what it takes.
The exam will be conducted in two phases. You'll find this is the norm for the rest of your time here at Qyburn.
First, the written portion will be conducted in this room. It will mostly cover what we've discussed in the lectures in class, however some additional material from the assigned reading may also appear for the overachievers among you who'd like to prove your knowledge of the material.
Second, there will of course be a practical portion. You will be broken up into groups and each group assigned to a professor at the academy to proctor your exam.
Your proctor will ask you to demonstrate your ability to channel basic elemental spells. They may also present scenarios which you must respond to by channeling an appropriate spell, however agin this is an opportunity for those of you who've developed your skills further to prove that.
The bar to pass and earn status as a full student is only high enough that we can be confident you have the potential to succeed here. We do not demand perfection.
However your performance on this exam will determine your class placements as well as determine your initial ranking amongs your peers. You will find that your ranking may earn you other priveleges during your time here.
And now I tire of the sound of my own voice so as I hand out the written exams I will leave you with these final words:
Potentia utendem est.
I take the writen exam. A UI window should appear now to summarize my progress.
And that concludes the written portion of the exam.
The fundamentals instructor reenters the room with a entourage of a dozen other professors in tow.
We will now assign you to groups proctored by my colleagues here. Please report to your proctor and follow them outside as your name is called.
I take the practical exam. A UI window should appear now to present the spellcasting challanges.
And that concludes the qualification exam.
You should each already have your results and know whether you've passed or failed the exam. The rankings will be posted tomorrow on my door.
It's been a plessure teaching you all, now go out there and enjoy a well deserved rest of your day off.
I make it back to the dorm and I feel like I'm walking on air.
I did it.
I'm a full student at the academy now.
Not only that but... well, I guess I've met a time spirit and saved the shrinekeeper from the burning temple, so all in all it's been a pretty successful day.
Wait.
The Shrinekeeper!
As the realization dawns on me, my mood darkens.
The fire at the temple. If I went to take the exam then no one went to the temple to save her.
I'm almost back to my room now and think to turn back but what could I possibly do now?
I have to at least go check.
You needn't worry about the shrine keepr. They were saved them this morning while you took the exam.
I see the time spirit floating in front of my room as I approach and her words lift the mood again.
Really? I'm glad. I'm honestly still pretty turned around by all this.
I reach for the handle to my door when the spirit stops me.
You shouldn't go in there. Not yet, at least. There's a hero taking a well deserved rest inside.
What do you mean? Who would be in my room... no.
This can't be possible.
Am I inside there right now?
You were inside, yes, as of 1 hour 43 minutes 8 seconds ago. You then left to return to this morning in another 57 minutes and 11 seconds.
It would be a both rude and catastrophic if you were to disturb your own slumber. So let's take our conversation outside; I understand you have more questions for me.
I can't make sense of this right now but I obediently follow the spirit as she floats to the front of the dorm.
As we step (float?) outside I lose track of the spirit. My frayed mind isn't tolerant of another surprise today and I start to look around in a panic.
I'm more than ready to accept the explanation that many of the impossible happenings were the delusions of an overly taxed mind, when I hear her voice.
Don't worry I'm still with you, just... less than before. In the interest of diescretion.
Discetion? What do you mean?
It wouldn't be wise for me to be seen by others.
So anyone could see you? I worried you were in my head.
I'm certainly not in your head. And yes, if I am projecting myself so strongly, then at times, perhaps others could see me. In glimpses.
No other human will have attuned to me so they won't see me as you do, but it's still best if I stay concealed when we aren't alone.
I look around and there are many other students mingling in the courtyard, celebrating the end of the first hard week of school.
We walk around for a bit longer in silence, I don't want to be heard talking to myeslf, and I need some time to collect my thoughts.
So I have a spirit following me around, a time spirit at that. I didn't know that time spirits existed. I guess I didn't really know any spirits even existed.
And she turned back time. Or sent me back in time. Why? How? My million questions start to rush back to me and I don't know where to begin.
I guess I should start with the question that is eating at me the most right now.
Why me?
She doesn't respond for several seconds, and I wonder if she left. I'd have no way of knowing.
I saw you at the srine. You paid respects that humans don't often do anymore.
So... because I was devout? I'm sorry but I didn't really believe in spirits until I met you. Not fully.
No, human devotion to causes and religion is for self satisfaction. It's of no interst to the spirits.
No I saw you and you were... receptive to me, even if you didn't mean to be. I could reach out to you and I needed your help.
They needed my help?
With the temple today, you wanted me to save it?
No, you could not save the temple. But you could save its resident.
I try to process this. The time spirit met me when I visited the temple for the first time the day after I arrived.
That's when I started having those dreams.
Human cognition is... malleable when dreaming. I granted you prescience so that you might see what I did. Of what would happen today.
Why? Why did you need me to save the shrine keeper?
I've observed the keeper of that shrine for many years. I've developed... a fondness for her. And as I've already said, you were receptive to me. If I could have warned her directly I would have.
I guess that makes sense. She needed someone to prevent the worst of the disaster today and I was all she could find.
So then... you came to find me after the fire to repay me? That's why you sent me back in time?
In a manner of speaking... But, it will be important that you are enrolled at the academy in the days to come. I shifted your path to allow you to accomplish everything you needed.
I wait for her to elaborate but when she doesn't I feel the weight of the silence. There are things the spirit isn't willing to tell me about what she wants from me.
Then, after you sent me back, there were two me weren't there? There still are?
A spirit's perception of time is very different from a human's, a time spirit's especially.
From my perspective there is but one of you, but your path through time is... more complicated than many others. Much of that is due to my influence.
So you may find that if you visit your room in the next 3 minutes and 39 seonds, you will perceive yourself from a different angle than usual. It's not something humans are well equipped to handle so I'd discourage you trying.
In my random walk around campus I've found myself back in front of the dormitory.
Was I always here? If I woke up early and stepped outside, would I find myself standing here? Or am I only here now and... not before?
My head hurts trying to organize the logic of the situation and I feel foolish trying to express concepts beyond my understanding in words.
It doesn't help that in response I hear the spirit laugh at me.
Hahahaha, oh I've missed conversing with humans. Hypotheticals are concept I struggled to grasp for ages. They still amuse me.
For all intents and purposes, yes, you were always standing outside these doors while inside you slept.
You're about to wake up now so I have to leave to greet you. Wait no less than 10 minutes before returning to your room.
And with that I'm alone again.
I decide to continue my stroll around campus to clear my thoughts before returning to my dorm room.
When I make it back I hesitantly open the door, not sure what I'd do if I encountered myself.
Welcome back. I only just shifted you 4 minutes ago.
She looks a little too comfortable in here, absently inspecting the posessions on my desk.
Thanks. So... what now?
Excellent question. Now you ought to rest, there will be time for more questions later.
That's the thing, though. How much later? What are you still doing here if I've managed to rescue the shrine keeper and taken the exam?
As I've just finished telling you, my purpose here is a delicate matter, but you're right, now that you've finished your qualifying exam, that purpose has shifted.
Suffice to say I'll be needing your assistance again, and you'll be needing mine. So from now, I'll be joining you.
I don't have the energy to press the absurdity of the circumstances anymore today, so just like that, I have my own guardian spirit.
In that case we should at least make introductions. I'm [mc.first_name]. What should I call you?
In response, the spirit appears pensive for a moment.
You will call me [ts.name()].
Fire? No. Not fire. I pick another.
There are 6 of us lined up on the grass. We're not that far from the next group over being proctored by another professor.
 Alright, listen up. I'll first go through and make sure you each even know what channeling is. Take a moment to attune to your element of choice. 
I attune myself to [entrance_exam_chosen_element] and await the instructors instructions.
I'm a little surprised I'm totally calm.
Rushing into a burning building, channeling the only thing between you and death, has a way of really making regular old channeling a lot less stressful.
Good, now, one at a time, I need you to each channel any simple spell you can, then release your element. Starting from you at the far end, go.
One by one we each make a simple demonstration of our ability.
The first student must have attuned to wind as a gust picks up too suddenly and too strongly to be natural. It carries with it the sent of smoke.
After the proctor gives their assent, the wind stops.
The second student seems to falter for a second, and I can't see the effect they're supposed to be creating at first, but then notice a faint glow just in front of their nose, casting their face slightly brighter than before. It's a clear day and the sun is bright so it's hard to tell.
The proctor doesn't seem to be concerned and grunts for the student to stop.
I'm fifth in line and the student just before me attunes to fire.
I state transfixes at the small flame they create in their cupped hands, sheltering it from the wind.
I don't hear what the instructor says and can't look away from the dancing flame. Even when the student dismisses it, I still see the afterimage. I can feel the intensity of the heat. I can hear the cracking of wood collapsing onto the inferno.
Hey! You! I can tell you're attuning [entrance_exam_chosen_element], don't you know how to channel it?
I snap back to reality. I can't slip up now.
I channel some water.
I channel some wind.
I channel some light.
I channel some life.
I channel some kinesis.
The proctor seems satisfied and I try to shake off the feeling from before.
Good. You all can at least can channel something. Next I'll be testing your endurance.
One by one I'll be calling on you again to channel your chosen spells. This time, however, I need you to maintain the effect for as long as you can. I'll be timing you.
You'll need to last at least 20 seconds to get a passing mark. If you can somehow reach 5 minutes I'll call you there, don't need you passing out on me.
Don't attune early as you'll just tire yourself out. I'll give you a moment to reattune when I get to you.
Again starting from the far end, go.
Once more we each attune and sustain our channeling while the proctor times us and notes our times on their board.
Each of us just repeats what we had done before just holding the effect for longer.
I don't risk looking at the 4th student's flames this time, instead counting the seconds before they had to stop. I'm not sure if my count was fast, but they seemed to last nearly a minute.
I repeat my performance again as well, and try to maintain the effect as long as I can.
I feel the time passing but I can't really tell how long it's been. I'm honestly not even that tired when I finally hear the proctor call out.
That's enough, that's 300 seconds. Next!
300 seconds? I made it the full 5 minutes then. I let myself be a little impressed at my own performance.
Alright that will conclude the basic practical examination.
As will already have been explained to you, we'll be going through a few scenario exercises as well. Feel free to sit this out if you don't think you can keep channeling from here.
This time you'll all be channeling at once. Make sure you release all spiritual elements, don't attune to anything until I finish giving you the scenario and tell you to go.
Then you'll all as quickly as you can respond by attuning to whatever element you'd like and channeling any spell you feel would be an appropriate response to that scenario.
I'll be grading you on your reaction time and the hypothetical efficacy of your responses.
Now we'd better hop to it, most other exam groups have already finished because you lot decided to show off during the endurance portion.
Scenario 1: 
I do the magic.
I wasn't very tired before but I'm starting to feel it catch up to me now.
Scenario 2: 
I do the magic.
Alright now, last one. Scenario 3: You're walking through the woods alone at night when all of a sudden, Shia Le Bouf!
I do the magic.
The next morning, I wake to the sound of an explosion.
I rush out into the hall, still dressed in my traveling clothes from last night.
Shit!
I find another student standing in a door frame, the door itself dangling on a single hinge.
What happened? Are you alright?
Yeah, it's... none of your business. You better not tell anyone about this, OK?
By this point I've made my way in front of the room with the broken door and I'm trying to peek around her to get a better look inside the room.
Sure, but do you need any help?
I don't see any flames or major signs of destruction, but a lot of things are strewn across the floor along with a some shattered glass.
It's fine, I don't need help.
She really didn't look like she wanted anyone bothering her.
Ok, well I'll see you around I guess.
I leave her looking troubled but a little releived and head out onto campus.
She doesn't look like she really wants anyone bothering her, but I'm driven more by curiosity at this point than anything else.
Look, just let me help you, it'll be faster with two people.

She looks troubled but relents, stepping aside to let me in.
Getting a clear look for the first time, the room isn't in that bad of a shape. A few things are strewn about but the only real trouble are the shards of glass.
I'm [mc.name()], by the way. I'm an incoming first-year.
[wg.name()]. I'm also a first-year.
Finding the trash bin, I start carefully collecting the glass as I find it and disposing of it.
The silence grows awkward and I can't hold my curiosity back any longer.
So what happened in here?
I messed up, OK?
You did this? How?
I was just... breathing. I do breathing exercises in the morning.
It's just me and my breath. Flowing into my lungs, then back out again.
It helps me... work through my anxieties, center myself.
And sometimes, it feels like the wind joins me. Usually it's empowering. But today...
I'm just not used to spending a lot of time inside. It's so stiffling.
I don't really know what I did, and the next thing I knew the window and door had both burst open.
Wow, that's incredible.
Sure, incredible. I've trashed my room and damaged school property and it's not even the first day of classes yet.
Yeah, but you can control the wind! You did something effortlessly that I wouldn't even know where to begin with.
She doesn't respond immediately, considering her words.
I don't really think about it. Not usually, at least. But then things like this can happen.
Well I guess that's why we're here. I definitely hope I can learn to do anything as cool as this.
She cracks a smile, for the first time since we've met, and seems to eye me up and down.
I doubt it. You don't look all that impressive.
We laugh at her joke and I feel some of the anxieties of being alone in an unfamiliar city melt. [wg.name()] also looks like she's been able to relax a little too.
We spend the rest of the morning cleaning up her room in relative silence but in brighter spirits.
We have many prospects this year that show a lot of promise.
Indeed. And 4 chosen by the guilds, twice as many as last year.
How are the guild prospects getting on?
Excellent. The one chosen by the navigator's guild is especially powerful. She nearly evacuated her dorm room of air without lifting a finger. Caused quite the stir.
Hah! Wonderful. I have heard the artificers guild's chosen are both brilliant young minds.
An understatement. They have no understanding of basic artifabrication theory, and so they have no common sense to hold them back. They don't hesitate to achieve the impossible.
Give them a few years and they'll shake the world.
I'm sure their time here will be elightening for everyone involved. And what of the last one, the adventurers guild's chosen? I'm not sure I've heard much of them.
Ah yes, well that one is a bit of a curiosity.
Oh? How so?
It's just to say... they so far seem completely unremarkable.
Admin1 frowns, as if they just saw someone urinating on their couch.
Well that can't be right. What did the guild include in their profile? What was the rationale for admission?
They were the child involved in the Karnsley incident.
Oh. I see. Then that is curious. And they haven't demonstrated any innate... talents? Tendencies? Anything that would shed some light on the matter?
As I said, unremarkable. Which is not to say they are an idiot. Just they scored in 52% percentile in the qualifying exam.
How disappointing. But still, some mysteries run deeper than others. And this one especially has the potential to change everything.
I return to my room exhausted and promptly fall asleep..
I attend the water elemental lecture. I feel like I'm starting to get it.
I attend the wind elemental lecture. I feel like I'm starting to get it.
I attend the fire elemental lecture. I feel like I'm starting to get it.
I attend the light elemental lecture. I feel like I'm starting to get it.
I attend the life elemental lecture. I feel like I'm starting to get it.
I attend the kinesis elemental lecture. I feel like I'm starting to get it.
The professor opens up the class to questions while we're free to independently practice chanelling.
Welcome, prospects, to Arcane {i}FUN{/i}damentals! I'm so excited to have you with me on this journey through the foundations of magic and spiritual channeling.
Some of you join us with prior study into these matters, however there's a good chance such experience has left you with bad habits and misconceptions.
My goal here is to smooth the rough and imbalanced backgrounds you all come to me with. We will be comprehensive, so you may find some of this redundant. It's up to you whether to take this seriously.
On the other hand, for those of you who find yourself struggling to keep up, I cannot cater the lessons to you either. I have exactly one week to cover the sum total of humanity's understanding on magic theory so I don't have the luxury of slowing down.
Now we'd best get into the lecture then. We have no time to dilly, let alone dally.
I've been so preocupied by all the expectations on me that I had forgotten why I was so excited to come here in the first place. I'm fascinated by magic and no one could tell me anything about it back home.
Today we'll begin by covering the spiritual energies. These are the forces we tap into when we channel our spells and manipulate the world around us.
Classically there have been many attempts to organize and understand these energies, however it's a remarkably difficult endeavor - inconsistencies and exceptions have a way of creeping in.
The most common classical taxonomies identify six main types which will comprise the curriculum you'll study in your basic level classes here. Those students with the aptitude that find themselves joining one of the research groups here will learn there are many more types of energy that defy this system of classification that are the subject of active research.
These six classical elements are: water, wind, fire, light, life, and kinesis.
Why these six? What do these have in common?
Dynamism. Movement. Change. This is the heart of magic. It is why we can make rain on a sunny day, give light to a moonless night. We can mend a broken limb but we cannot impede an oncoming blade. Magic is harnessing the essence of change itself.
Now, the headmaster would have {i}my{/i} head if I spent all day lecturing on theory alone, so how about we put this to practice?
The professor puts down his notes and across the room I hear chairs creek as we all lean forward, anticipating something is coming.
He steps clear of his desk, and makes a sweeping motion with his arm as a slight chill falls on the room. I can't quite make out what he did until some other students gesture up and I notice the air is sparkling. Is that ice?
He then lifts his finger to his mouth as if urging quiet. Moving his hand a few inches from his face and a small flame {i}poofs/{i} into place, floating above his finger.
He opens his mouth, inhales loudly, and blows the flame into a massive fireball that seems to reach the vaulted ceiling. A loud hiss erupts as the suspended ice rapidly turns to steam that permeates the room.
I'm so focused on the effect that I miss what he does next, but everything suddenly grows dark as the curtains are pulled over the windows all across the room. A few students scream as they can't contain their surpsise.
We sit in darkness and silence for several long moments before a focused beam of light shines onto the front of the room where the professor is standing. Then another, and another, three lights in all shining on him from the corners of the room.
I wait for his next move but he just looks up. I follow his gaze and am greeted by a dozen small rainbows flickering in the mist.
After a few more moments of quiet, the curtains open wide and the effect fades.
The professor is still standing in the front of the room, breathing heavily with a massive grin on his face, clearly having enjoyed his own performance.
He then takes a bow and I join the rest of the class in applause.
Hahaha, damn. That always takes it out of me but it's worth it to impress you lot.
He laughs while he works to catch his breath.
My little show there only made use of five of the six elements; I haven't managed to work in a compelling demonstration of life energy yet.
So what have we learned besides that I am an incorrigable show-off?
Well any of you who are already a bit practiced will know that it's actually quite difficult to switch quickly between the different elements, but you may not understand why. Let's get into the details and see if we can work it out.
The process of channeling can be summarized in three steps:
First, Attunement. You must attune yourself to the spiritual energy in question. This is hardest when you first attune yourself to a specific element, but it becomes easier and easier through repitiion until it is second nature.
Second, Recall. You must recall the effect you are trying to create. This is key and where most students misstep. It is not enough to understand what the effect is, or how it looks, but you must evoke the experience of it to be able to materialize it again.
To those of you who are newer to this, yes this means you can only channel phenomena with magic that you have experienced firsthand.
In your other classes you will practice with simple, easily reproduceable experiences to reinfoce this process.
Lastly, you must feed that experience with the mana from within you. The spiritual energies provide us with a template to follow, a mold to fill, but the material to fuel it comes from your own mana.
These steps each get easier through practice, but it is particularly challanging to switch from attuning one element to another. The mental dexterity it requires to perform this transition smoothly is a skill all of its own.
Which is to say, I am very impressive. You may now applaud again.
Thank you for your attention. That concludes our lecture for this morning.
After noon you will find each of the subject matter instructors will be hosting introductory lessons on their respective spiritual element of study.
These will be hosted each day this week so feel free to attend them in any order you like. These lessons are not mandatory so feel free to self-study or take a walk about town if you prefer, it is a lovely day after all, but don't neglect preparing for your exams.
Welcome back to arcane fundamentals class! Last time we discussed the spiritual elements and the process of channeling them in the abstract. Today we'll begin our study on channeling by focusing on the first step: Attunement.
Some of the class emits an audible groan.
Yes, some of you will already be familiar with these drills. We will not be chanelling any complete spells today, feel free to practice at your own pace outside of my class.
Understanding catching up to me, I'm a little disappointed as well, but I suspect I could benefit from these drills more than anyone else in class so I shouldn't be ungrateful.
Because Attunement is a skill that more than any other improves through repitition, our exercises today will practice attuning to a single element repeatedly to develop that familiarity.
I focus on the spiritual energies of [intro_chosen_element]. When I start off, the sensation is surprisingly familiar, a slight humming throughout my body.
I have never intentionally channeled before, but I have once or twice done so on accident when I was particularly emotionally charged. I'm pleasently surprised that it feels natural already.
After a while the effort starts to give me a headache.
My headach gets much more intense, but I keep performing the drills.
I take a short break and feel my headache subside. I continue the drills.
Most students by the time they're in their second year specialize in one of the elements. This is in large part due to how potent it is to dedicate your studies to attuning to a single element quickly and efficiently.
You don't need to make such a decision immediately, it will probably do you good to have a more generalized grounding so you don't limit your options. But for now, as you're getting started, do stick to any one element as you continue to practice.
There isn't that much time left in class and my effort has begun to tire me out.
The headache comes back, more intensely than before.
My persistent headache, which I've managed to ignore so far, grows near unbearable.
I push to continue my drills despite the throbbing and buzzing in my ears.
I can only manage it for a little while before I collapse exhausted until class ends.
I release my concentration and relief hits me immediately, though my headache doesn't go away completely by the time class ends.
Welcome back to arcane fundamentals class! Last time we covered attunement in more detail. Today we'll be focusing on the second phase of channeling: Recall.
I'm a little hesitant after pushing myself so hard last time, but I can't help but be excited.
The recall step in channeling imposes a limitation on your abilities that no amount of study or practice can overcome. Great Magi improve their repetoire through a long and varied life experiences. In a way, true masters of the art are avid students of life itself.
The professor looks pensive for a moment.
That was awfully deep, wasn't it? Well don't go getting any bright ideas about rushing out of here to go living life to the fullest. If I'm stuck inside here, you are too.
The fact is that while life experiences are a necessary component, they are by no means sufficient. Which means more drills!
Today we'll again limit our attention and improve through repetition. Focus on a memory of a simple physical phenomenon that aligns to one of the spiritual elements.
If you don't already have an experience in mind, I suggest you try lifting your pencil and dropping it several times. Then focus on the experience of the pencils motion before attuning yourself to the energies of Kinesis.
Not having any better ideas, and feeling a bit foolish, I begin repeatedly dropping my pencil.
I try to focus on the imagery of watching it fall. The rate at which it falls, the sounds of it clattering, the way it bounces chaotically on my desk.
Then I attune to Kinesis and try recalling that experience.
Nothing happens at first, which isn't too surprising, but I soon grow frustrated with my lack of progress and start fiddling with the pencil again.
Remember, if you're trying to explore Kinesis, focus both on the pencil rising and falling. In particular you're the one lifting the pencil so you'll have a more intimate connection to that experience.
I try again with the Professor's advice in mind and it doesn't take too long before I start to feel something.
I've been attuning this whole time so the familiar humming is back, but now I feel like I can see the motion of the pencil in space, rising gently above my desk then tumbling again.
We keep the drills up throughout class, the professor offering more helpful hints.
Welcome back to arcane fundamentals class! Today will be the final day of our exploration of the mechanics of channeling as we discuss infusing our spell with Mana.
This is probably the subject I'm most familiar with so far.
Man I'm so uncofident about this mana thing.
Mana is another concept with some traditional understanding that we've discovered to be incomplete with more research into the field.
It is a energy of living things. You can use it to magic. You can also use it to not magic.
Today is the last day of our series on Arcane Fundamentals.
Rather than focusing the lecture on any specific subject, today will be student guided. If you have any questions or areas you want elaboration on now is your chance to ask them before your exams tomorrow.
We spend the class reviewing a number of concepts and clarifying channeling techniques.
Before we conclude, does anyone have any final questions?
Many of the other students around me look bored or half-asleep, but for me the novelty hasn't worn off. My mind is reeling from how much we've learned in just one week. This puts many of my experiences into perspective, but something about this explanation feels off.
When it finally clicks and I shoot my hand into the air.
Yes, a question in the back?
Professor, you've covered a lot on spiritural energy, but what about the spirits themselves?
Ah, an interesting line of inquiry. One that many have devoted their lives to researching with... inconsistent results.
This is a subject I've glossed over in the interest of time but I'm glad you've asked and you deserve an answer.
To cut to the heart of your question, you seek to personify the energies we call upon in our practice of magic. Many traditional belief systems teach of these beings we call "the spirits", give them will, give them agency.
But our way here is of empiricism. We conclude only what we can see, what we can touch, what we can measure.
It's not that magi have disproven the existence of spirits, per se. It's just that the question is ill formed. We cannot know whether the the spirits have will anymore than we can know whether the earth or the sky or the chairs upon which you rest have will. Do they mind your rear end pressed upon them? Perhaps they fancy some more than others?
Of course the spirits are where we get the modifier "spiritual" that we ascribe to this energy and how we channel it. Whether you interpret this as a linguistic holdover or literally is a matter of personal belief and not in the domain of these lectures.
I shouldn't be but I'm still surprised by how differently people here consider the spirits than back home.
I'm not surprised to hear this perspective, and there is a logic to what he's saying. Maybe the spirits are just a superstitious interpretation of these energies.
I can see what he's saying, but I've always been able to feel the spirits. It doesn't makes sense to deny that now.
I believe that's all the time we have. I wish you all the best of luck on your exams tomorrow. If you apply yourself as you've done in my class, I have no doubts you'll come out victorious.
It's a beautiful day in the market.
While walking down the street you happen across 10... money. How lucky!
It's a beautiful day in the market.
While walking down the street you happen across 100... money. How incredibly lucky!
Here I have discovered the dojo
Here I have discovered the blacksmith
Here I have discovered the orphanage
Here I have discovered the fountain
Here I have discovered the back alley
Here I have discovered the printer
Here I have discovered the inn
Here I have discovered the carpenter
I visit the dojo. There's nothing to do here today.
I visit the blacksmith. There's nothing to do here today.
I visit the fountain. There's nothing to do here today.
I visit the back alleys. There's nothing to do here today.
I visit the inn. There's nothing to do here today.
I visit the guild. There's nothing to do here today.
I visit the shrine. There's a lot of work to do but it feels good to help out.
The end.
